a lot of people talk about veganism and
animal rights as if veganism is a
natural extension of a natural
consequence following from animal rights
what would you think if I told you that
I'm a vegan and I do not believe in
animal rights
there are many vegans at the moment in
2017 who argue that veganism is a
natural extension of human rights that
actually it's just an extension of the
human rights discourse
it's especially popular I'd say within
that category for people to try to argue
that veganism is a natural consequence a
natural extension of the same tendency
seen in the anti-racism discourse and in
the feminist discourse that somehow
there's this sequence of parallel
oppressions that people have been
fighting to lift and the next one to go
is going to be the barrier between human
and animal in the same way that they
imagined there was previously a barrier
between man and a woman or within the
United States a barrier between black
and white
ie the status of black people under
slavery that I don't believe in any of
that implicitly or explicitly veganism
is a movement in which many people
participate with many different
competing definitions
it may seem laughable to some of you if
you're an outsider if you have been
involved being ISM it may seem laughable
that people could be members of a
movement and still debating the meaning
of the word but it's actually a really
meaningful debate I think that veganism
is still a contestable concept I think
that pretty much the whole library of
animal rights concepts are still really
contestable in an open-ended way I think
nobody can claim to know the truth of
animal rights animal rights may not
present us with any truths as a paradigm
I think it may only present us with
questions can hit you with some
real-life examples in case this is too
abstract for you
for many vegans it's an uncomfortable
exception to the rules when somebody
confronts them with the fact that the
production of wheat the production of
grain involves killing animals involves
killing insects yes but also could
involve killing animals like Gophers
Gophers you know complex mammals with
eyes and a brain and a beating heart and
red blood that's the reality of where
your bread comes from if you're vegan
it's the reality to make a long story
short of where pretty much all your
fruit and vegetables come from also it's
a slightly different story in each case
but yep pretty much all of them involve
killing animals
so is veganism or is it not opposed to
the killing of animals many many vegans
who define the idea and defined the
movement in those terms then have to
deal with this as an uncomfortable
exception to the rules and they engage
in Jesuitical reasoning of one kind or
another I think it's important not to be
consistent in your propaganda message
that doesn't really matter to me too
much you know yeah you may have
different types of messages for
different types of audiences I think
it's really important to be consistent
when you're alone looking at yourself in
the mirror I think it's important to be
consistent when you're in intimate
conversations with your loved ones your
girlfriend your boyfriend your parents
your grandparents your children about
what veganism is and what it means to
you I think it's important to be
consistent in your own heart in your own
mind with yourself I think it's
important that you're not living a lie
not even if it's a liar living for a
good cause and I do I do believe that
veganism is a good cause even when
people pursue it for the wrong reasons
or even when people pursue it for
internally contradictory reasons yeah
every time you buy an airplane ticket
you are paying for someone to go around
in a golf course it'll flip there you're
paying for someone to go around in a
golf cart with a shotgun shooting birds
to make sure there aren't birds flying
into the aircraft engine it's a little
bit different in different climates and
the different
but yeah you know killing killing birds
is part of keeping an airport running by
and large depends if the airport is
close to a forest or not the Paris
depends on the climates instep but yeah
sometimes it's more of a problem
sometimes less but pretty much each and
every Airport you'll go to has some
measures in place largely violence to
keep birds away from the runway to keep
them out of aircraft engines so that the
people in the airplanes are safe as a
vegan you're probably familiar with the
mode of reasoning of saying hey look if
you're morally comfortable with eating
pork then you have to be morally
comfortable with slitting the throat of
the pig yourself right it can't just be
that it's moral for someone else to kill
the pig and for you to eat the pig
either you're taking responsibility for
the consequences of your actions or
you're not
well are you taking responsibility for
the concept consequences of your actions
when as a vegan you eat bread and you
know you're killing Gophers when you buy
an airplane ticket and you know you're
killing Birds
I am consistent because as I said my
paradigm my model of veganism
is not based on animal rights it's not
based on the belief that each animal has
a soul it's not based on the belief that
we should extend to all animals the
model of so-called love and care and
affection that people often feel towards
household pets like dogs and cats I
don't share the view that we should
extend that feeling to bears and cows
and cockroaches in fact if you watch my
videos about domestication of animals I
don't even think it's an impulse that's
healthy or that we should celebrate in
terms the relationship between human
animals and wolves or between humans and
cats or what-have-you
I think that's a deeply deeply flawed
paradigm to base any moral argument on
that it's moral to love your dog in a
certain way therefore it's this is
therefore this is how we should treat
these other animals
I believe that animals in the wild
should leave dignified lives that have
as little to do with human beings as
possible although the reality in the
21st century is that
we have a moral responsibility to
protect wilderness to protect habitat
against the encroachment of our fellow
human beings and to act in the best
interests of the species themselves of
biodiversity of the continuation of
particular species even though with
wildlife management that may actually
entail killing particular animals what
is my definition of veganism I'll tell
you my definition of veganism is this if
I as just one person can refuse to buy
animal products of any kind in my small
small way of making the world a better
place it's better ecologically it's
better
ethically and it's better for my own
health if you would join me if you and
you and you would join me a few dozen a
few hundred a few thousand it would make
the world a better place
ecologically ethically and for your
health for all of our health right and
then beyond that the next step is if we
can get organized politically so that at
least other people are inspired to
become veganism or maybe just to create
the conditions in the world to make it
easier for people to become and remain
veganism running vegan grocery stores
vegan daycares vegan old folks homes
vegan restaurants lobbying government
for legal changes all the things that
are going to enable the vegan ization of
our community our cluster of friends
whatever it may be of our generation
right then that's the logical next step
that grows out of that definition that
approach but that approach ultimately is
addressed to the tremendous evil of
factory farming of cows in their
millions and billions living their whole
lives in a steel cage beneath a steel
sky on a concrete floor being born and
living a life of nothing but suffering
never seeing the clouds in the sky just
to produce food that is unnecessary and
unhealthy right this is the central
challenge the veganism addresses
but it's not the only challenge right my
definition of veganism really leaves an
open door to the reality of where your
bread comes from of how airports operate
in terms of birds flying around in terms
of wildlife management culling animals
killing animals outright for the purpose
of trying to maintain habitat for the
greater good of that ecosystem of making
the decision that maybe a species of
predator is overpopulating and is
driving another species to extinction
that maybe a plague has broken out all
the hard decisions that Park Rangers
have to make in managing habitat my
philosophy encompasses and includes all
that positively not as an exception to
the rule for me that's the rule my
version of veganism includes killing
animals and is actually not based on a
concept of animal rights it's based on
what I call the wildlife management
paradigm